---
layout: paper
title: "SEHI-PPI: An End-to-End Sampling-Enhanced Human-Influenza Protein-Protein Interaction Prediction Framework with Double-View Learning"
image: 
authors: Qiang Yang, Xiao Fan, Haiqing Zhao, Zhe Ma, Megan Stanifer, Jiang Bian, Marco Salemi, Rui Yin
year: 2025
ref: Qiang Yang, Xiao Fan, Haiqing Zhao, Zhe Ma, Megan Stanifer, Jiang Bian, Marco Salemi, Rui Yin, 2025, BioRxiv
journal: BioRxiv
pdf: https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2025.03.07.642105v2.full.pdf
doi: doi.org/xxx
github: 
---

# Abstract
Influenza continues to pose significant global health threats, hijacking host cellular machinery through protein-protein interactions (PPIs), which are fundamental to viral entry, replication, immune evasion, and transmission. Yet, our understanding of these host-virus PPIs remains incomplete due to the vast diversity of viral proteins, their rapid mutation rates, and the limited availability of experimentally validated interaction data. Additionally, existing computational methods often struggle due to the limited availability of high-quality samples and their inability to effectively model the complex nature of host-virus interactions. To address these challenges, we present SEHI-PPI, an end-to-end framework for human-influenza PPI prediction. SEHI-PPI integrates a double-view deep learning architecture that captures both global and local sequence features, coupled with a novel adaptive negative sampling strategy to generate reliable and high-quality negative samples. Our method outperforms multiple benchmarks, including state-of-the-art large language models, achieving a superior performance in sensitivity (0.986) and AUROC (0.987). Notably, in a stringent test involving entirely unseen human and influenza protein families, SEHI-PPI maintains strong performance with an AUROC of 0.837. The model also demonstrates high generalizability across other human-virus PPI datasets, with an average sensitivity of 0.929 and AUROC of 0.928. Furthermore, AlphaFold3-guided case studies reveal that viral proteins predicted to target the same human protein cluster together structurally and functionally, underscoring the biological relevance of our predictions. These discoveries demonstrate the reliability of our SEHI-PPI framework in uncovering biologically meaningful host-virus interactions and potential therapeutic targets.
