---
layout: paper
title: Structural-functional analyses of the Huntingtin/HAP40 complex in Drosophila and Humans
image: 
authors: Stephen Farmer,Amanda Solbach,Shiyu Xu,Beatriz Rios,Xin Ye,Amy Gao,Daniela Covarrubias,Yue Yu,Lili Ye,Vicky Chuong,Erin Furr Stimming,Haiqing Zhao, Sheng Zhang
year: 2025
ref: Stephen Farmer, Amanda Solbach, Shiyu Xu, Beatriz Rios, Xin Ye, Amy Gao, Daniela Covarrubias, Yue Yu, Lili Ye, Vicky Chuong, Erin Furr Stimming, Haiqing Zhao, Sheng Zhang, 2025, Journal of Biomolecular Structure and Dynamics
journal: Journal of Biomolecular Structure and Dynamics
pdf: /pdfs/papers/Farmer2025.pdf
doi: 
github: 
---

# Abstract
Huntington’s disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disorder caused by an abnormal CAG expansion in
the Huntingtin (HTT) gene. Given its simple genetic cause but complex pathogenic mechanisms, inter-
est in targeting HTT for HD treatment is growing, necessitating a clear understanding of HTT regula-
tion. HTT protein primarily exists in a core complex with HAP40, forming a highly ordered structure
with two large globular domains connected by a bridge. We previously demonstrated that HAP40 is
conserved in Drosophila, controls HTT’s function, protein stability, and levels, and is a potential modi-
fier of HD pathogenesis, supporting its central role in HTT regulation. Here, we showed that HTT syner-
gizes with HAP40 to induce novel gain-of-function effects in Drosophila when overexpressed. Protein
modeling revealed that despite their prominent evolutionary and sequence divergence, the fly and
human HTT-HAP40 complexes share a high degree of structural similarity. Protein-contact maps and
molecular simulations showed that HAP40 preferentially binds to HTT’s C-terminal domain in both
complexes. By examining the interfacial contacts between HTT and HAP40 in fly and human com-
plexes, we identified ten conserved bonds that are important for HAP40’s affinity for HTT. Finally, we
showed that the conserved N-terminal BU motif in HAP40 is not essential for HTT binding but impor-
tant for HAP40’s functions. Through the structural-functional analyses of the fly and human HTT-
HAP40 complexes, our results support that the structural similarity underlies the functional conserva-
tion of the two complexes from these evolutionarily distant species and further uncover novel insight
into HAP40 regulation and its interaction with HTT.
